Pricing feedback (#9)
huggingface/hf-endpoints-documentation: docs/source/pricing.mdx

  </a>
</div>

Easily deploy machine learning models on dedicated infrastructure with 🤗 Inference Endpoints. When you create an Endpoint, you can select the instance type to deploy and scale your model according to an hourly rate. 🤗 Inference Endpoints is accessible to Hugging Face accounts with an active subscription and credit card on file. At the end of the subscription period, the user or organization account will be charged for the compute resources used while Endpoints are up and in a *running* state.

> You can find the hourly pricing for all available instances for 🤗 Inference Endpoints, and examples of how costs are calculated below. While the prices are shown by the hour, the actual cost is calculated by the minute.

Reviewer: > by the minute

I read from a customer comment that somewhere else we say it's by the second, we should chase that down and harmonize

Reviewer 2: It's definitely calculated by the second but could be billed by the minute?

| aws      | xxlarge       | $7.00       | 4    | 96GB   | NVIDIA A10G  |
| aws      | xxxlarge      | $45.00      | 8    | 640GB  | NVIDIA A100  |

> The following example pricing scenarios demonstrate how costs are calculated. You can find the hourly rate for all instance types and sizes in the tables above. Use the following formula to calculate the costs:

Reviewer 3: ![Bildschirmfoto 2022-10-19 um 09 14 34](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32632186/196624351-642bf29e-84f2-475f-8df4-1b8e97e5bd5e.png)

## Pricing Examples

Below are pricing examples for a simple Endpoint and more advanced Endpoint configuration.

### Example 1: Simple Endpoint

**Endpoint configuration:**

- Cloud: AWS
- Region: us-east-1
- Instance type: CPU - medium (0.12$/h)
- Autoscaling:
  - Min replica: 1
  - Max replica: 1

**Cost calculation:**

`Instance hourly rate * (hours * # min replica)`

**Hourly cost:**

`$0.12/h * (1h * 1) = $0.12/h`

**Monthly cost:**

`$0.12/h * (730h * 1) = $87.6/month`
```
instance hourly rate * ((hours * # min replica) + (scale-up hrs * # additional replicas))
```

### Example 2: Advanced Endpoint with Autoscaling
If you are using a **medium CPU by AWS without any autoscaling** for **1 hr**, the cost would be:

> **Endpoint configuration:**

Reviewer 3: i would keep "description" for hourly rate.

```
cost = $0.12/hr * ((1 hr * 1 replica) + (0 hrs * 0 additional replicas))
$0.12/hr
```

- Cloud: AWS
- Region: us-east-1
- Instance type: GPU - small ($0.6/h)
- Autoscaling:
  - Min replica: 1
  - Max replica: 3
  - Every hour, a spike of load makes the Endpoint automatically scale from 1 to 3 replicas for a duration of 15 minutes
| Hourly cost | Monthly cost |
|-------------|--------------|
| $0.12       | $87.6        |

> **Cost calculation:**

Reviewer 3: We should add a header to separate examples

> But now you want something more powerful, so you decide to use a **large GPU by AWS and a maximum of 5 replicas**. This time, you'll use the GPU for **3 hours** and you get a spike in traffic every **0.25** hours which scales the Endpoint from **1 to 4 replicas**. You didn't need to scale to the maximum number of replicas, so you're only charged for what you actually use.

Reviewer 3: That doesn't make much sense. The hourly price will always have 1 hour. The idea was to have hourly pricing to then easily outscale to the numbers they use, e.g. 1 month... 
Thats how AWS does it as well.

```suggestion
But now you want something more powerful, so you decide to use a **large GPU on AWS with a maximum of 5 replicas and a minimum replica of 2**. Every 4 hours, you get a spike of traffic for 30 minutes or 0.5 hours, where your endpoint scales from **2 to 5 replicas**.
```

Author: Ah that was my bad in understanding how the hourly price is calculated!

> cost = $24.375

Reviewer: the math doesn't check out for me here (calculating the cost for 3 hours instead of 1). Maybe to clarify, for every example the formula is `hourly cost = ` instead of `cost =`?

| aws      | xxlarge       | $7.00       | 4    | 96GB   | NVIDIA A10G  |
| aws      | xxxlarge      | $45.00      | 8    | 640GB  | NVIDIA A100  |

The following pricing scenarios demonstrate how costs are calculated for a simple Endpoint and a more advanced Endpoint with autoscaling.

> | Provider | Region    | Instance type           | Autoscaling                                                                                                                          | Cost                                                                                      | Hourly cost | Monthly cost |

Reviewer 3: Not sure if a table is better to understand and follow! For me it looks more confusing and overwhelming and i need to read side ways and it feels more crowded and complex. I would keep it as it is or improve what we have. 
@jeffboudier what do you think?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32632186/195783640-9737ad4e-4341-4980-bfdf-c3d9a38f65f4.png)
